README.md, before:

# Dr Foodie - The AI Nutrition Expert

Dr Foodie is an intelligent, AI-powered web application designed to provide users with accurate and comprehensive nutritional information for any food item. Leveraging the power of Google's Gemini API, it offers a smart, intuitive, and beautifully designed interface to help users make healthier, more informed dietary choices.

![Dr Foodie Screenshot](https://storage.googleapis.com/aistudio-hosting/workspace-storage/e0b19231-3c58-45e0-811e-08709559c55b/dr-foodie-screenshot.png)

## ✨ Features

- **Smart Search**: Get detailed nutritional analysis for any food by simply typing its name.
- **Comprehensive Analysis**: Provides a full breakdown of macronutrients, vitamins, and minerals per 100g serving.
- **AI-Generated Images**: Each food search is accompanied by a unique, high-quality image generated by AI.
- **Health Insights**: Understand the science-backed health benefits and potential risks of overconsumption for each food.
- **Healthier Alternatives**: Discover suggestions for healthier food swaps with clear reasons.
- **Food Comparison**: Add multiple foods to a comparison list to easily contrast their key nutritional values (calories, protein, carbs, fat).
- **Responsive & Modern UI**: A clean, accessible, and mobile-friendly design with a dark mode toggle.
- **Engaging Animations**: Subtle animations provide a smooth and dynamic user experience.

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: [React](https://react.dev/) with [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- **AI/LLM**: [Google Gemini API](https://ai.google.dev/) (`gemini-2.5-flash` for data, `gemini-2.5-flash-image` for images)
- **Styling**: [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- **Icons**: Heroicons (via React components)
- **Build Tool**: Vite (inferred from `index.html` setup)

## 🚀 How It Works

1.  **User Input**: A user enters a food name into the search bar (e.g., "avocado").
2.  **Gemini Data Request**: The app sends a structured prompt to the Gemini API (`gemini-2.5-flash` model), requesting detailed nutritional information. The request specifies a JSON schema for a consistent and reliable response format.
3.  **Gemini Image Request**: Simultaneously, a prompt is sent to the `gemini-2.5-flash-image` model to generate a realistic photo of the food.
4.  **Data Rendering**: The application parses the JSON response and dynamically renders the information in a structured, easy-to-read `FoodCard` component.
5.  **Comparison**: Users can add the food to a comparison list, which is managed in the app's state and displayed in a separate `ComparisonView` component.

## ⚙️ Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- An active internet connection.
- A modern web browser.
- A **Google Gemini API Key**. You can get one from [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/).

### Installation & Setup

1.  **Clone the repository (or download the files):**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/your-username/dr-foodie.git
    cd dr-foodie
    ```

2.  **Set up your API Key:**
    The application loads the API key from `process.env.API_KEY`. You will need to configure this environment variable in your development environment. For example, you could use a `.env` file and a library like `dotenv`.

    Create a file named `.env` in the project root and add your key:
    ```
    API_KEY=YOUR_GEMINI_API_KEY_HERE
    ```

3.  **Install dependencies and run the project:**
    This project is set up to run in an environment with pre-bundled dependencies (like the one it was built in). If you were to run it locally with a standard Node.js setup, you would typically run:
    ```bash
    npm install
    npm run dev
    ```

## 📂 File Structure

```
.
├── components/          # Reusable React components (FoodCard, ComparisonView, etc.)
├── services/            # Modules for interacting with external APIs (geminiService.ts)
├── types.ts             # TypeScript type definitions for data structures
├── App.tsx              # Main application component, manages state and logic
├── index.html           # Entry point HTML file
├── index.tsx            # Root React rendering script
└── README.md            # This file
```

## ⚖️ Disclaimer

Dr Foodie is an AI-powered tool and is intended for informational and educational purposes only. It is not a substitute for professional medical or nutritional advice. Always consult with a qualified healthcare provider before making any dietary changes.

Commit message:

docs: Clarify API key setup and running instructions
The README has been updated to clearly explain how to run the application without manual API key setup by leveraging environment variables. It also clarifies the optional steps for local development, including obtaining and setting the API key.

README.md, after:

# Dr Foodie - The AI Nutrition Expert

Dr Foodie is an intelligent, AI-powered web application designed to provide users with accurate and comprehensive nutritional information for any food item. Leveraging the power of Google's Gemini API, it offers a smart, intuitive, and beautifully designed interface to help users make healthier, more informed dietary choices.

![Dr Foodie Screenshot](https://storage.googleapis.com/aistudio-hosting/workspace-storage/e0b19231-3c58-45e0-811e-08709559c55b/dr-foodie-screenshot.png)

## ✨ Features

- **Smart Search**: Get detailed nutritional analysis for any food by simply typing its name.
- **Comprehensive Analysis**: Provides a full breakdown of macronutrients, vitamins, and minerals per 100g serving.
- **AI-Generated Images**: Each food search is accompanied by a unique, high-quality image generated by AI.
- **Health Insights**: Understand the science-backed health benefits and potential risks of overconsumption for each food.
- **Healthier Alternatives**: Discover suggestions for healthier food swaps with clear reasons.
- **Food Comparison**: Add multiple foods to a comparison list to easily contrast their key nutritional values (calories, protein, carbs, fat).
- **Responsive & Modern UI**: A clean, accessible, and mobile-friendly design with a dark mode toggle.
- **Engaging Animations**: Subtle animations provide a smooth and dynamic user experience.

## 🛠️ Tech Stack

- **Frontend**: [React](https://react.dev/) with [TypeScript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)
- **AI/LLM**: [Google Gemini API](https://ai.google.dev/) (`gemini-2.5-flash` for data, `gemini-2.5-flash-image` for images)
- **Styling**: [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)
- **Icons**: Heroicons (via React components)
- **Build Tool**: Vite (inferred from `index.html` setup)

## 🚀 How It Works

1.  **User Input**: A user enters a food name into the search bar (e.g., "avocado").
2.  **Gemini Data Request**: The app sends a structured prompt to the Gemini API (`gemini-2.5-flash` model), requesting detailed nutritional information. The request specifies a JSON schema for a consistent and reliable response format.
3.  **Gemini Image Request**: Simultaneously, a prompt is sent to the `gemini-2.5-flash-image` model to generate a realistic photo of the food.
4.  **Data Rendering**: The application parses the JSON response and dynamically renders the information in a structured, easy-to-read `FoodCard` component.
5.  **Comparison**: Users can add the food to a comparison list, which is managed in the app's state and displayed in a separate `ComparisonView` component.

## ⚙️ Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- An active internet connection.
- A modern web browser.

### Running the App

This application is ready to run in the current environment. The **Google Gemini API Key is provided automatically and securely** as an environment variable (`process.env.API_KEY`), so no manual setup is required.

### Local Development Setup (Optional)

If you wanted to run this project on your own machine, you would follow these steps:

1.  **Get an API Key**:
    You'll need a **Google Gemini API Key**. You can get one from [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/).

2.  **Clone the repository:**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/your-username/dr-foodie.git
    cd dr-foodie
    ```

3.  **Set up your API Key:**
    Create a file named `.env` in the project root and add your key:
    ```
    API_KEY=YOUR_GEMINI_API_KEY_HERE
    ```

4.  **Install dependencies and run the project:**
    This project is set up to run in an environment with pre-bundled dependencies. On your local machine, you would typically run:
    ```bash
    npm install
    npm run dev
    ```

## 📂 File Structure

```
.
├── components/          # Reusable React components (FoodCard, ComparisonView, etc.)
├── services/            # Modules for interacting with external APIs (geminiService.ts)
├── types.ts             # TypeScript type definitions for data structures
├── App.tsx              # Main application component, manages state and logic
├── index.html           # Entry point HTML file
├── index.tsx            # Root React rendering script
└── README.md            # This file
```

## ⚖️ Disclaimer

Dr Foodie is an AI-powered tool and is intended for informational and educational purposes only. It is not a substitute for professional medical or nutritional advice. Always consult with a qualified healthcare provider before making any dietary changes.
